.TH LIBINIFILE\+\+ 3 "17 January 2008" "QNET" "Linux Programmer's Manual" 
.\"
.\"     Copyright (c) 2008 Anders Lövgren
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"     Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
libinifile\+\+ \- C\+\+ library for parsing ini-style configuration files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <inifile++.hpp>
.SH DESCRIPTION
libinifile\+\+ is a small library that provides a pure C\+\+ parser for parsing 
ini-style configuration files. The parser is validating and throws an
parser::exception object whenever it encounters a syntax error in the input stream
(the opened ini-file). The parser is declared in the namespace inifilepp.
.SH SUMMARY
.RS
.nf
//
// Structure for an entry parsed from the ini-file:
//
\fBstruct parser::entry\fP
{
        unsigned int line;      // line number.
        char *sect;             // section name.
        char *key;              // entry keyword.
        char *val;              // entry value.
};

//
// The exception object thrown:
//   
\fBstruct parser::exception\fP
{
        unsigned int line;
        unsigned int pos;
        std::string msg;
};		
.TP
\fBparser::parser\fI(const char *path);\fP
Contructor of the parser object. The path argument is the ini-file to parse. 
Throws parser::exception on initilize error.
.TP
\fBparser::~parser\fI();\fP
Destructor of the parser object.
.TP
\fBconst parser::entry * parser::next\fI() const;\fP
Get next entry from input stream (the ini-file). Throws parser::exception on
syntax or memory allocation error.
.TP
\fBvoid parser::getopt\fI(int option, int &value);\fP
.TP
\fBvoid parser::getopt\fI(int option, char **value);\fP
.TP
\fBvoid parser::setopt\fI(int option, int value);\fP
.TP
\fBvoid parser::setopt\fI(int option, const char *value);\fP
Get or set the value for an parser option. See OPTIONS for descriptions about
the option argument. Throws an parser::exception on failure.
.SH OPTIONS
Possible values for the option argument to parser::setopt() and
parser::getopt() with its value type inside parenthesis:
.TP 
\fBINIFPP_CHECK_SYNTAX\fP (int)
Controls whether syntax check should be done at all.
.TP 
\fBINIFPP_ALLOW_QUOTE\fP (int)
Allow quoted strings around value.
.TP 
\fBINIFPP_ASSIGN_INSIDE\fP (int)
Allow assign characters inside value.
.TP
\fBINIFPP_ALLOW_MULTILINE\fP (int)
Allow value to span multiple lines using '\\' as line continuation character.
.TP
\fBINIFPP_COMPACT_MLINE\fP (int)
Eat extra whitespace in value when INIFPP_ALLOW_MULTILINE is used.
.TP
\fBINIFILE_CHARS_COMMENT\fP (char *)
Controls the set of characters identified as begin of comment (default: '#').
.TP
\fBINIFILE_CHARS_ASSIGN\fP (char *)
Controls the set of characters identified as assignment chars (default: '=').
.SH EXAMPLE
A small example showing how to parse an ini-file:
.RS
.nf

#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>
#include <inifile++.hpp>

using namespace inifilepp;

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
	try {
		parser p("sample.conf");
		const parser::entry *ent;
		
		while((ent = p.next())) {
			std::cout << "sect='" << (ent->sect ? ent->sect : "") << "', " 
				  << "key='"  << (ent->key  ? ent->key  : "") << "', " 
				  << "val='"  << (ent->val  ? ent->val  : "") << "'\\n";
		}
	} catch(parser::exception &e) {
		std::cerr << "parse error at (" << e.line << "," << e.cpos << ")\\n";
		return 1;
	}
	
	return 0;
}
.RE
.fi
.SH BUGS
Probably.
.SH AUTHOR
Anders Lövgren <lespaul@algonet.se>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2008 Anders Lövgren
.PP
Distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libinifile (3)
